- yen this is a video about one of the
most popular and I think emblematic
forms of vegan activism in the year 2018
and it is again a harsh critique of that
method of activism partly in reply to a
comment from Chile carb strong that I'm
going to read out to you in just a
second look guys it's really important
to question the real meaning of the
symbols we come to rely on in politics
symbols due to some extent represent and
misrepresent our goals or aspirations
are are the meanings we're trying to
convey in a political context what does
the the silent protester wearing a mask
mean to you I think that the idea of a
silent vigil is a powerful symbol in
Western culture but a silent vigil is a
symbol of mourning a silent vigil for
example at the Tomb of the Unknown
Soldier this is a standard expression of
mourning a loss of death in our culture
and we have a pretty long history of
doing silent vigils in vegan activism
the so called cube of truth is one
recent variation on this however a
silent vigil doesn't express a positive
aspiration to change the world I think
one of the reasons why the reaction to
my earlier video criticizing the cube of
truth phenomenon one of you is why the
reaction was so extreme was that I was
challenging the symbolic value of
standing silently in a mask people
warned to think of this as something
heroic something defiant something
rebellious and I was leading you to
question that maybe instead this is
something mindless something conformist
something denigrating to the
participants and really it is let's talk
about the mask itself for a moment let's
question the symbolic value of the mask
you're wearing do you know what the Guy
Fawkes mask represents and what it means
it represents terrorism and not just any
kind of terrorism Catholic
fundamentalist terrorism this alludes to
the so called Gunpowder Plot I don't
think anyone today regards that as a
heroic plot to assassinate the king of
England to bring about a coup d'etat to
try to replace Protestantism with
Catholicism as the ruling state religion
of England now Catholic terrorists in
that period of time were much more of a
real threat than Muslim terrorists
Islamic terrorists are a threat to the
status quo of England today or any
Western European culture there's no real
possibility of the government of England
being swept aside and replaced with a
Muslim fundamentalist government whereas
there was a very real threat that
continued in England from Guy Fawkes
through to the whole period of the
English Civil War there was a very real
threat of the British government being
swept aside the parliamentary tradition
and so on and and replaced with a a
Catholic monarchy such as most of what
much of mainland Europe had at that time
was a very real struggle and you know
very violent struggle now I know there
was a comic book called V for Vendetta
many years ago I read that comic book
and that comic book was adapted into a
movie I'm not going to comment on the
movie but I will say that the comic book
itself used this symbol in an
intelligent way to really question
terrorism and terrorism in the context
of resisting a fascist regime similar to
the Nazi regime of world war ii the
comic book is not only about those
issues
conv was also very interested actually
ethnic issues of black versus white not
the African American experience
specially about African immigrants black
people within the United Kingdom there
were a number of other themes that the
comic book was interested in but the
comic book did not
present the Guy Fawkes mask as a as a
simple heroic symbol I think that's an
incredibly stupid misinterpretation of a
comic book that also represents its its
main character the character wearing the
Guy Fawkes masks it very much represents
him as insane and of course at the time
that comic book came out the resemblance
between the Guy Fawkes mask and the the
villain the well-known comic book
villain he fights against Batman
the resemble Street hit and the Joker
was intentional making you question
right from the beginning is this
character the hero or the villain of the
story and politically that's a question
you're still supposed to be asking at
the end of the story in that comic book
so yes I'm gonna come out and say
straight to your face Chipping garb
strong this is stupid
the the symbol you're employing is
stupid it's bad and it's wrong and it's
stupid even on the level of interpreting
what is this comic book supposed to be
about historically what is the Guy
Fawkes mask supposed to be about or what
is you know vegan activism supposed to
be yes you know I'm gonna say it that
lonely do now I'll mention by contrast
is a very kind of reasonable and
mealy-mouthed critique of this form of
activism that was written by Tobias
Leonhardt I sent him some messages on
Twitter saying hey I just noticed you
did a criticism you wrote a critique of
the cube of truth here's my YouTube
video where I'm much more harshly and
directly criticizing and you can kind of
see in his reply as he's saying yeah
well I relate to what you're saying in
that video but he says he was
intentionally being a bit more of a of a
nice guy about he was being a bit more
evasive in his criticism of people don't
be a nice guy don't be evasive don't be
dishonest what is the point of engaging
in political critique of what's going on
in the movement
if we're gonna lie to ourselves or we're
gonna lie to others I used to be a
Buddhist I used to be a member of
mainstream tera vaada Buddhist religion
and I left because I don't want to be a
part of a religion that's built on a lie
not even seemingly harmless little lies
about nirvana and meditation and charity
and ecology and feeling good about
yourself you know whether it's something
within veganism something in western
politics I'm gonna tell you the truth in
as much as it's known to me and a lot of
the time telling the truth comes down to
being honest but what we don't know
about saying yeah I'm gonna tell you
honestly I don't know the answer this
question it often comes down to being
honest about the questions that we have
to ask but sure you know here on YouTube
honesty is the only currency that we've
got and I am gonna give it to you raw if
you haven't looked up the history of the
Guy Fawkes masks and the Gunpowder Plot
on Wikipedia shame on you for standing
in a public square and literally wearing
a symbol of Catholic terrorism as your
protest statement what kind of ignorant
[ __ ] is that I don't even know if these
people read the comic book V for
Vendetta but it's I mean it doesn't
symbolise the comic book it symbolises
the Gunpowder Plot the history of
Catholic terrorism in Europe but here's
the other thing it symbolizes it
symbolizes your judgement on yourself as
an activist that there is no better
change you can make in the world than to
stand there silently like a mannequin
and end it and it symbolizes a
relationship of authority between you
and the organizers of this protest
that's we're gonna get into this video
that's what's really sick is that
somebody's in charge somebody's giving
orders and you are silently standing
there and taking orders and that
authoritarian spirit which is very much
the opposite of what V for Vendetta was
all about this comic book and so on that
pervades and I think poisons the whole
Anonymous for the voiceless cube of
truth project that's weird a question so
joy curbstone wrote to me saying quote
cubes are held around once a fortnight
for four hours fortnight is a fancy word
for two weeks by the way so four hours
of your time every two weeks and we're
now just going to pretend that that's
nothing that's
ending in silence with a mask following
or orders from your overseer from the
organizers but that that's nothing I
feel like I studied a lot of the
philosophy of Aristotle in the last
couple of days reading Aristotle I don't
think it adds up to four hours maybe
about three hours of learning this last
couple days if I spent four hours
lifting weights of the gym that's a lot
of time lifting weights the gym and
sometimes that's what it takes
um you're kidding yourself there are
only so many hours a week that you're
awake alert not busy doing dishes not
busy with your job you got four hours of
mental clarity and you're gonna spend it
standing in silence that is a big
sacrifice and you have better things to
do with your time no matter who you are
watching this video you have better ways
to advance the vegan movement including
even making YouTube videos like this one
I mean this may be a really lousy form
of activism what I'm doing here writing
a children's story book with us from
Titan so there are there other examples
but sure it's better than standing in
silence wearing a mask so I continue
it's only four hours so Giuseppe is
another 13 days the week to participate
in some form of creative advocacy shame
on you Joey
no he doesn't you know what it's like
them a full-time job Julie you know what
it's like whoa okay you know what it's
like to raise kids I think Joey has a
younger sister he's been involved in
raising shame you what are you joking
you think for hours I think that's
that's not a significant sacrifice for
hours every two weeks or even four hours
a month no it's it's it's significant
and that's that's not more question here
that the question is could you be
spending this time better and you could
and you know you could join now I see
what you do with your time in an eight
this it ain't standing and sounds of the
mask on it's not um he continues a vie
has reached thousands of non-vegans with
a powerful message I wouldn't be so
quick to dismiss this moorage well not
just dismissing it Joey
but tell me selling this excuse you make
for cube of truth it's reached thousands
of vegans sorry it's reached thousands
of people with a powerful message isn't
this the same excuse you made for
durianrider like just a couple years ago
just one year ago maybe up until pretty
recently weren't you making this
excuse for forms of vegan activism that
you now regard as laughable bad and sad
and wrong you made this same excuse for
durianrider and freely other people make
this same excuse for petaa People for
the Ethical Treatment of Animals right
they reach thousands of non vegans so
when does the excuse making stop right
and Pettit does reach thousands of
people and every writer does reach
thousands of people
well we're question here is is this good
or bad is this better or worse than
other things you could do with four
hours of your time right that's at some
point somewhere the excuse may sink
making has to stop and I'm telling you
right here right now on this YouTube
channel is where the excuse making is
gonna stop he says I challenge you to
participate in the cube of truth and
then do a video reaction afterwards get
outraged have some conversations
doctorate document your experience get
back to us look forward hear me right so
we're gonna hear my reply here I did I
did volunteer and now in response to
this discussion with Joey I've
volunteered again and both times I was
denied the the right I was denied the
possibility of participating in a silent
protest because that is how
narrow-minded and authoritarian this
organization is or I could say in the
plural these organizations are I reply
hi Joey four hours is indeed a long time
to stand someone in a mask and you seem
to be ignoring the possibility quite
real my own experience that the
organizers are basically engaging in
power mongering and that the experience
is denigrating to the participant who is
not a celebrity like yourself
I did indeed volunteer to do cube of
truth in Victoria British Columbia
Canada the city of Victoria you may be
unaware of this and the organizers
refuse to let me to participate there's
a lot of power mongering that goes on in
local beacon movements you may be blind
to it but if you don't totally conform
to some little Hitler in the local
movement you're out excluded hated maybe
even defame on the Internet and that may
be because you don't agree with the
local little Hitler on some political
issue unrelated to veganism many many
vegans have spoken to around the world
most recently in France have similar
experiences and not only with anonymous
or the voiceless anyway your challenge
that participating to Cuba is a bit
surreal because I
ready volunteered for cube and I was not
allowed to participate discussed here so
I did earlier videos on that two videos
I think so there is a lesson to be drawn
for my experience with cube and I think
it's a lesson for you old man
smiley face winky face whatever some
kind of emoji alright so I already was
excluded from anonymous for the
voiceless also known as cube of truth I
was kicked out of the Facebook group
when I was volunteering to participate
in the City of Victoria why did that
happen absolutely no good reason they
had a post about cube of truth in
Thailand this is obviously a very brief
summary and I said I just gotten back
from Thailand and I said look I think
you guys aren't thinking about the real
political context in Thailand in
Thailand at that time there was no legal
right to protest Thailand was at that
time a military dictatorship they had no
elections that no freedom of speech said
I think there's a lot more going on here
you guys did think about totally
constructive interesting discussion open
up and brief comment in a Facebook group
banned you're out
oh you think for yourself oh you show
some signs of independent thought then
you can't be a member of anonymous for
the voiceless you can't wear the mask
and stand there silently like a good
little sheep oh and we don't want you we
don't want people who ask questions we
don't want people use their brains and
hey guess what because of this
conversation with joette carb strong i
took a question to their chapter in
vancouver these are two different cities
close to each other in canada i asked
about volunteering for anonymous for the
voiceless cube of truth in the city of
vancouver here we go
quote and and i put the disclaimer up
here this is a question not an answer hi
i've recently been discussed in this
question with vegan celebrity activist
you a carb strong and also semi being
introduced aryan author and actress
tobias Leonar what is the actual process
formal or informal whereby people are
included or excluded by AV AV meaning
anonymous with a voiceless meaning cube
of truth my own opinion slash experience
is that people are excluded all the time
for reasons that remain unstated for
example someone in the group said that
you're politically offensive possibly
for reasons unrelated veganism
for example someone says you voted for
Donald Trump and this raises the
question of whether or not the outreach
includes people who voted for Trump etc
on the other hand I've talked to
one guy with experience doing cubes who
said that he really made an effort to
include people as participants who
sounded like they were mentally deranged
and who compulsively start lecturing
about September 11th conspiracy theories
ie subjects unrelated to veganism and
subjects that make the whole protest
seem foolish are crazy
however the basic question here is does
av have a formal vetting process and if
the answer is no are people reflecting
on the in a formal vetting process
that's ongoing as people are basically
excluded all the time for reasons left
unstated what was their reply to this
message they kicked me out of the
Facebook group they prevented me from
volunteering for kube of truth okay what
does standing silently in a mask
symbolize for you maybe it symbolizes
the the Christian tradition of a silent
vigil the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier so
on and so forth in Western Europe maybe
for you it symbolizes an act of
rebellion and defiance and a vague
memory of a comic book and a movie
called V for Vendetta maybe maybe
I'm challenging you guys here both
symbolically and actually what's going
on here is top-down hierarchical power
mongering it's the creation of little
Hitler's it's the creation of
unquestioned and unquestioning obedience
between the self-appointed leaders of
this group and the followers who are who
are willing to take that weight who
we're willing to stand there and hold
that screen and be a be a symbol of you
know a relationship of authority that I
think should not even exist
within the vegan movement this is not
this is not a military organization guys
and on the other hand this is snuffing
out squandering and wasting the real
creative potential the real intellectual
potential of the people who are holding
those signs whether you're an architect
or an artist or you know an unemployed
janitor you
have the mental potential the dueling
better with those four hours whether you
spend them actively trying to prepare in
advance the vegan movement or reading
the philosophy of Aristotle or anything
else you are making a significant
sacrifice and I think you're making a
sacrifice in order to be a symbol of
something that is fundamentally bad and
demented and wrong Joey if you still
disagree hit me up
[Music]
evolution